King’s College London Informatics MSc Projects
7CCSMPRJ Marking Rubric
Introduction (10%)
High Distinction: Defines the project area and its place within the subject, economic, customer and/or com-
mercial context. Proceeds from the wider concerns of Informatics and other relevant disciplines to the specialised
subject of the report by way of an orderly and natural progression of ideas.
Mid-Low Distinction: Defines the project area and its place within the subject, economic, customer and/or
commercial context.
Merit: Defines the project area.
Pass: Defines the project area.
Fail: Defines the project area.
Literature Review (10%)
High Distinction: Reviews the background to the project deeply and systematically. Incorporates relevant issues
from the specialised area succinctly. Omits the irrelevant. Identifies all the main issues, which are then analysed
and developed. The Review is a penetrating analysis, showing an impressive grasp of the subject and excellent
judgement in the selection of previous work that should be applied in project. It gives new insights into the project
area, not immediately identifiable from literature.
Mid-Low Distinction: Reviews the background to the project deeply and systematically. Incorporates relevant
issues from the specialised area succinctly, omitting the irrelevant. Identifies all the main issues, most of which are
then analysed and developed.
Merit: Reviews the background to the project comprehensively. Incorporates some relevant issues. Identifies
all the main issues, most of which are then analysed and developed.
Pass: Reviews the background to project. Identifies the main issues, some of which are then analysed and
developed.
High Fail: Reviews the background to project. The review is roughly right in what it says but has little to
show that the writer really understands the subject. Some important references are missing.
Low Fail: Lists some issues, some of which are relevant to the project.
Specification and Design (15%)
High Distinction: From the Review explains the rationale behind the design for the artefact, comparing alterna-
tives and selecting appropriate advanced approaches. Describes the requirements for the artefact succinctly, but
in enough detail for reader to appreciate all significant points. There is something distinctly novel about what is
being attempted and the student has carried off the attempt with style, rarely defeated by problems encountered
and more typically finding some clever original solution. This should be publishable or marketable and it shows
outstanding research potential.
Mid Distinction: From the Review explains the rationale behind the design for the artefact, comparing alter-
natives and selecting appropriate advanced approaches. Describes the requirements for the artefact succinctly, but
February 2025

in enough detail for reader to appreciate all significant points. There is something distinctly novel about what is
being attempted and the student has carried off the attempt with style, rarely defeated by problems encountered
and more typically finding some original solution. With some further work, this should be potentially publishable or
marketable and it shows excellent research potential.
Low Distinction: Explains the rationale behind the design for the artefact, comparing alternatives and select-
ing appropriate advanced approaches. There is something distinctly ambitious about what has been attempted
and the student has carried off the attempt with style, rarely defeated by problems encountered and more typically
finding some clever solution. It shows good research potential.
High Merit: Describes the requirements for the artefact succinctly, but in enough detail for reader to appre-
ciate all significant points. There is some evidence of research potential.
Mid-Low Merit: Describes the requirements for the artefact succinctly, but in enough detail for reader to ap-
preciate all significant points. Reveals more than mere competence in the application of specialised knowledge.
Pass: Explains the rationale behind the design for the artefact comparing some advanced alternatives. Describes
the design for the artefact in enough detail for reader to appreciate all significant points. Reveals some competence
in the application of specialised knowledge, but lacks insight.
High Fail: Lists some design issues, most of which are relevant. Describes the artefact itself. Discusses very
little above a ”nuts and bolts” level.
Low Fail: Describes the artefact. Describes some aspects of the artefact but the description is incomplete.
Implementation/Technical Achievement (25%)
High-Mid Distinction: Displays a systematic and carefully planned approach, with a clear understanding of the
current methodological and theoretical approaches. There is something distinctly novel about what has been at-
tempted and the student has carried off the attempt with style, rarely defeated by problems encountered and more
typically finding some original solution. Shows a clever application of testing and/or verification techniques as well
as a deep knowledge and understanding of software maintenance.
Low Distinction: Displays a systematic and carefully planned approach, with a clear understanding of the current
methodological and theoretical approaches. Reveals more than mere competence in the application of specialised
knowledge. There is a satisfying quality and thoroughness about the work and it is free from any significant defects.
Shows a clever application of testing and/or verification techniques.
Merit: The relevant problems were mostly solved and some unexpected difficulties were resolved to obtain a
thorough result. Displays a systematic and carefully planned approach, with a clear understanding of the current
methodological and theoretical approaches. Shows a correct application of testing and/or verification techniques.
Pass: The student has solved a well-defined, moderately low-risk problem. The relevant challenges were mostly
solved and some unexpected difficulties were resolved to obtain a worthwhile result. Testing and/or verification are
poorly conducted.
High Fail: The student has abandoned some aims when faced with unexpected difficulties. The final result is
only partially functional, but the project could be completed to a satisfactory standard given additional time. The
artefact is likely to be fully developed but the original aims of the project are unfulfilled.
Low Fail: The artefact has not been fully developed.
2

Evaluation (20%)
High-Mid Distinction: Critically evaluates the effectiveness of the artefact, comparing results expected from the-
ory (including those for alternative designs) with those obtained in practice.
Low Distinction: Evaluates the artefact, comparing results expected from theory with those obtained in prac-
tice.
Merit: Evaluates the artefact, comparing results expected from theory with those obtained in practice.
Pass: Evaluates the artefact.
General Scholarship (10%)
High Distinction: Clear, coherent, logical structure to the report. Grammatical, expressive style. Appropriate use
of references, diagrams, figures etc. Consistent formatting and correct use of bibliographical conventions. Highest
standards of presentation. Uses critical reflection to analyse the work done, stating clear conclusions, identifying
related problems and areas to which the work may be applied.
Mid Distinction: High standards of presentation. Clear, coherent, logical structure to the report. Grammati-
cal, expressive style. Appropriate use of references, diagrams, figures etc. Consistent formatting and correct use of
bibliographical conventions. Uses critical reflection to analyse the work done, stating clear conclusions, identifying
related problems and areas to which the work may be applied.
Low Distinction: High standards of presentation. Clear, coherent, logical structure to the report. Grammati-
cal, expressive style. Appropriate use of references, diagrams, figures etc. Consistent formatting and correct use
of bibliographical conventions. States clear conclusions, identifying related problems and areas to which the work
may be applied.
High Merit: Good standards of presentation. Clear, coherent, logical structure to the report. Grammatical
style, possibly with some errors. Appropriate use of references, diagrams, figures etc. Consistent formatting and
correct use of bibliographical conventions.
Mid-Low Merit: Good standards of presentation. Most of the conclusions that can be drawn from the work
done.
High Pass: Satisfactory standards of presentation. Coherent structure to the report. Grammatical style, possibly
with some errors. Use of references, diagrams, figures etc. Consistent formatting and correct use of bibliographical
conventions. States some conclusions that can be drawn from the work done.
Low Pass: Satisfactory standards of presentation. Coherent structure to the report. Grammatical style, possibly
with some errors. Use of references, diagrams, figures etc. Consistent formatting and correct use of bibliographical
conventions. States some conclusions that can be drawn from the work done.
High Fail: Presentational weaknesses. Structured report. Comprehensible but not necessarily grammatical style.
Correct use of bibliographical conventions. States some conclusions that can be drawn from the work done.
Low Fail: Displays poor, disorganized presentation. Comprehensible but not necessarily grammatical style. Correct
use of bibliographical conventions. States some conclusions that can be drawn from the work done. Comprehen-
sible but not necessarily grammatical style. Correct use of bibliographical conventions. States some conclusions
that can be drawn from the work done.
3

Legal, Social, Ethical and Professional Issues (10%)
Distinction: Clearly indicates those professional standards, codes of conduct and legislation of relevance to the
project conducted and succinctly describes their implications. It includes a thoughtful discussion of all relevant
aspects such as: effects on the public well-being, computer security, environmental and sustainability aspects,
economic and commercial factors, globalization, accessibility, Intellectual Property and related issues, software
trustworthiness.
Merit: Indicates some professional standards, codes of conduct and legislation of relevance to the project con-
ducted. It includes a discussion of some relevant aspects such as: effects on the public well-being, computer
security, environmental and sustainability aspects, economic and commercial factors, globalization, accessibility,
Intellectual Property and related issues, software trustworthiness.
Pass: Indicates a few professional standards, codes of conduct and legislation of relevance to the project con-
ducted. It includes a discussion of a few relevant aspects such as: effects on the public well-being, computer
security, environmental and sustainability aspects, economic and commercial factors, globalization, accessibility,
Intellectual Property and related issues, software trustworthiness.
Fail: Mentions a few professional standards, codes of conduct and legislation of relevance to the project conducted.
Presentation
High-Mid Distinction: The presentation covers the complete scope of the project. Where a prototype has been
developed, the presentation includes an excellent live demonstration of the prototype in addition to some slides for
context and further information – this could be used as a tool demonstration at a reputable CS conference. There
is excellent evidence of understanding of the overall project topic, its significance and fit in the wider computing
space and beyond. Scenarios to be demonstrated have been carefully and judiciously selected and prepared with
data to support the overall narrative. A clear narrative is established as part of the demonstration, clearly identifying
user groups and scenarios to be demonstrated. The presentation is highly engaging and clearly understandable,
delivered at pace and with excellent and clear visual aids. The student has pre-empted potential questions and
incorporated excellent responses in the presentation.
Low Distinction: The presentation covers the complete scope of the project. Where a prototype has been
developed, the presentation includes a convincing live demonstration of the prototype in addition to some slides for
context and further information. There is clear evidence of understanding of the overall project topic, its significance
and fit in the wider computing space. There is clear evidence of careful selection of scenarios to be demonstrated. A
clear narrative is established as part of the demonstration, clearly identifying user groups and scenarios to be demon-
strated. The presentation is engaging and clearly understandable, delivered at pace and with appropriate visual aids.
Merit: The presentation covers the complete scope of the project. Where a prototype has been developed,
the presentation includes a convincing live demonstration of the prototype in addition to some slides for context
and further information. There is clear evidence of understanding of the overall project topic, its significance and
fit in the wider computing space. There is evidence of careful selection of scenarios to be demonstrated. A clear
narrative is established as part of the demonstration, clearly identifying user groups and scenarios to be demon-
strated.
Pass: The presentation covers the complete scope of the project. Where a prototype has been developed, the
presentation includes a live demonstration of the prototype in addition to some slides for context and further infor-
mation. There is some evidence of understanding of the overall project topic, its significance and fit in the wider
computing space. The presentation of project outcomes may be less well structured; in particular there is likely no
clear narrative demonstration of the prototype developed and no evidence of careful selection of scenarios selected
to be demonstrated.
High Fail: The presentation describes some aspects of the project. The presentation may only include slides
without a demonstration of the software prototype developed (where appropriate). There is some evidence of
understanding of the overall project topic, its significance and fit in the wider computing space but an overall lack
of clarity in the presentation of the outcomes from the project.
4

Low Fail: A presentation that does not convey the scope and outcome of the project.
Overall
High Distinction: An excellent report that is written to a professional polished standard. It shows deep under-
standing beyond what expected from a project on this level. The technical achievement of the project is outstanding.
Mid Distinction: The report is at an excellent level. It shows deep understanding beyond what is needed for
the project. The technical achievement demonstrates ambition and clever solutions.
Low Distinction: The report is at an excellent level. It could reach the top standard if it didn’t fail to men-
tion several points. The technical achievement goes beyond taught material and is free from significant defects.
Merit: The report has a clear focus, exhibiting a good level of knowledge or ability, with only one or two de-
ficiencies. The technical achievement demonstrates competence and a systematic approach.
Pass: The report is showing an acceptable level of basic knowledge or ability. There are no major flaws, but
there are a significant number of deficiencies. The technical achievement mostly solves relevant problems but
demonstrated poor validation.
High Fail: The report is just below the expected threshold level, covering only one or two or three of the ex-
pected topics/sections in the report. The technical achievement only partially satisfies the objective and exhibits
defects.
Low Fail: A significant number of major flaws, which demonstrate lack of basic knowledge or ability.
Credit Level Sub-Classification Marks Awarded
Distinction
High Distinction 90-100
Mid-Range Distinction 80-89
Low-Range Distinction 70-79
Merit
High Merit 66-69
Mid-Range Merit 63-65
Low-Range Merit 60-62
Pass
High Pass 56-59
Mid-Range Pass 53-55
Low-Range Pass 50-52
Fail
High Fail 36-49
Low Fail 7-35
NS 0-6
5